Where do you think you are?
I don't know.
You. Where do you think you are?
Where do you think you are?
I'm gonna fuckin' kill you,
that's where I think I am.
Hey, freak! Freak!
No. No. No, no, no, no.
Fuck, no.
You think that's it?
No, I wouldn't.
Wouldn't what?
I wouldn't think that that's it.
Poured concrete. Foundation.
My guess is we're in a basement.
Do you have any idea
how long you were in the van?
Nineteen, 20 minutes. So...
Fourteen, 15 miles?
Do you drive for a living?
I might.
Well, how do I know
you're not part of this?
You know like how they put cops in
with the prisoners in the movies?
Fuck! That's what this is!
-What?
-The movie.
The two guys tied up
in the room and the hacksaw.
That's what this is.
-Tied up how?
-You never seen it?
No.
Well, you're lucky
'cause it's a stupid fucking movie.
Chained.
Right, they were chained up,
and then the one guy figured it out
and that's when it got so sick.
-I told Grace it was a stupid movie...
-Who is Grace?
My ex-wife. Wife.
I told her nobody would do that.
Do what?
Cut off their own foot with a hacksaw.
Are you certain
about the 14 miles?
'Cause this could be some
crazy fucked up shit just like that.
Were you counting time or do you
just have a natural sense of distance?
You just know. Why?
I know that he picked me up first.
Of that, I'm certain.
And then we drove
about half your distance,
which is seven miles.
Then we waited for
a considerable period of time.
Finally, he loaded
what had to be you into the van,
and we drove to here.
So that's 14 and seven is 21...
You wanna do math when he could be
coming through with a fucking hacksaw?
Hey. Hey, buds.
Hey, buddy.
I didn't mean what I said before.
About killing you.
That was nuts. That wasn't me.
So we're square, right?
You have to accept a guy's apology,
because if a guy apologises
that's good, right?
'Cause I didn't mean nothin', right?
What the fuck? What the fuck you doing?
Please, no. No. Come on.
What the fuck you gonna do?
What the fuck?
What the... Buddy...
What are you doing?
What the fuck you doing, man?
The fuck... Okay.
Okay. Okay.
You seeing this?
Tell us your intentions, please.
Hey, how come you do that for him,
and how come I got the choker on?
How come he doesn't?
What does that mean?
And how come
he wasn't gagged or nothin'?
You crazy fuck! What are you doing?
Are you putting on a show of some kind?
With us?
You need to tell us what you're doing or
I swear to God I will fucking kill you.
You hear me?
We're gonna go live.
In six, five, four,
three two, one...
Are they all on at once?
Or do they take turns?
Turns.
They're motion and voice-activated.
But you'll never know
which one is on in any given minute.
So just direct yourself
to the pilot cam.
That way you won't confuse
everybody watching.
Understood?
"Everyone"? Who is everyone?
-Tell them about yourself.
-Who, exactly?
They'll need to know
as much about you as possible.
It can only help you in the end.
It'll make you seem more real.
I'm not saying
fuckin' nothin' to fuckin' nobody.
Except get me the fuck outta here.
You wanna know how real I am?
Go fuck yourself! That's how real I am.
You think that was wrong to say that?
What do you think he's doing?
I think we will soon find out.
No, no, no.
No. What are you doing?
What do you want me to say?
Who you are, what you do.
To make you real.
I'm retired. I was a professional.
To them. Not me.
I am retired.
I was... I've had a profession.
The legal profession.
I live on the outskirts of the city.
I was in my driveway when I was taken...
I have been taken.
I don't know what I can or cannot say
if I do not know
the purpose of my being here.
You can discourse on whatever you want.
I was physically taken.
Unloading groceries
from the back of my car.
My wife and I have lived
in that house for over 30 years,
so she or one of the neighbours
will see the groceries in the driveway.
I don't know whether
you left a ransom note or not.
But, obviously,
someone will call the police...
Stop it. This only works
if you tell the whole truth.
What am I saying that is not true?
You.
Fuck you. No, no, no. Please, no.
I didn't mean that. That wasn't me.
That wasn't me.
I do home repairs.
Specialise in roofing.
To the camera. Tell them your name.
My name is Ron.
I have two children who are
expecting me home tonight for dinner.
And all I was doing was going through
the fucking drive-through,
for Christ's sake.
That's a lie.
What, you mean the parking-lot thing?
Okay, I was going to the drive-through
and then I pulled over
at the edge of the parking lot
to check my tyres like I do.
And then I get out and then
I get cracked on the head,
and then I'm in a sack
and we were pulling away,
and what the fuck is this about?
Hold it up.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no!
No, I know what this is.
This is Turkish prisoner shit.
And like I said, I have two little kids
so, please, no Turkish prisoner shit.
You. Read me what's on the front page.
There was an oil spill
off the coast of Florida.
-You.
-What?
The paper.
I don't got that,
the oil-leak thing. I can't find that.
-You.
-Moncler,
the Wall Street firm, has been
accused of false reporting to the SEC.
I don't got that.
Is it bad that I don't got that?
What do you have?
The girl from the talent show
is getting married.
You.
The murderer of the Jeeter girl
was executed this morning...
Yeah, I got that! I got that!
He kidnapped and killed the girl.
I got that.
You.
Ten thousand vehicles were recalled
for faulty brake lines.
I don't got that. Fuck.
All right.
-"All right" what?
-Do we all get it now?
I don't get it. I don't get nothin'.
You have to figure out
why each of you is here
and what the connection between you is.
You have five minutes.
You can't be serious.
To prove I'm serious...
What the fuck you doing with those?
Keep those fucking things away from me.
I'll shove those fucking things
right down your throat.
No. No.
You're gonna need that.
What are you doing? No, please!
Mother of God! Please, no!
Five minutes.
The towel is for the blood.
It's not working. It's not going back.
This way it'll bind
if I just hold it like this
-and give it enough time. It'll...
-Ron. Stop. Stop. Listen to me.
What?
We have to try to be very calm.
I have never seen anything work out well
that was done in haste.
What just happened was monstrous.
But it has told us a great deal about
the situation we find ourselves in.
What he did was
not an impulsive act on his part.
The garden shears. The towel.
They were planned.
He intended to do that from the start.
And he intended to do it to you.
Not to me.
I counted 10 cameras.
He said they were live.
That they're transmitting
images of us right now.
When he instructed us
to look at the pilot camera,
it seemed to me
as if he were anticipating
that a great number of people
would be watching us.
They might very well be
watching us right now.
-The clock.
-I'm aware of the clock.
He said five minutes
to figure out the connection.
What the hell is he gonna do
when the five minutes are up?
You don't get it.
You don't get it because
you didn't see the fuckin' movie.
I'll go first.
I'll tell the exact truth to you
and to everyone who is watching.
And I presume that includes our captor.
He was correct.
I did not tell the whole story earlier.
My wife is not at home.
She and my daughter
went away on holiday this morning.
I drove them to the airport.
And then I went to the grocery store.
I was in my driveway unloading groceries
from the back of my car
when a white van drove up.
The driver,
the man who is our captor, got out
and started walking towards me.
I thought he was lost
so I put down the groceries
I had in my hand
so that I could speak with him.
And then he put a bag over my head
and knocked the glasses off my nose.
I could see them on the pavement.
There were oranges rolling around
and then down the driveway.
I couldn't move.
He had me completely restrained.
And then he manhandled me into the van.
When we started downhill,
I started counting.
Now you.
Ron, this will not work...
We have to get the fuck out of here.
You were in a drive-through restaurant,
or you were going to
a drive-through restaurant?
I have two little girls
that I need to see right now.
But you stopped and got out to, what,
to check your tyres?
Right now.
Is this part of your daily routine?
Well, just 'cause I missed breakfast.
I wasn't even supposed to be there.
What do you mean?
I go to Zoop's Chicken
Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday... Thursday and Friday
I go to Steak 'n Shake.
1:00 or 1:30 at the latest.
Everybody knows that.
But this is Saturday.
Yeah, I had to meet a guy
out on Old Sheltingham Road
to talk about some damage
that the storm did to his place.
Is the guy at the Old Sheltingham Road
the only one who knows
that you were going there?
He cut off my finger!
Did you stop and get gas first?
The finger that I was born with.
The finger I had from my whole life.
That my mother gave me.
Was the drive-through
one of those restaurants
you can see from the highway?
And we're talking about
fucking hamburgers?
You need to focus...
What did you figure out?
We figured out that
you're a fuckin' homo.
Ron.
The answer is obvious.
Other than the fact that
in the two newspapers you gave us
we had one article in common,
there is no connection whatsoever
between the two of us.
Clearly, there's a purpose
behind my presence.
Everything about
my abduction was planned.
It required prior knowledge.
On the other hand, Ron's abduction
appears to be completely at random.
No one, not even Ron would've known
where he was going to be then.
So I believe that
he was picked up simply
because he was visible from the highway.
Yeah, so what the fuck am I doing here?
To prove the depths he's willing
to go to in dealing with me.
We've got a problem in our society.
Nothing that we say
has any value any more.
No credibility.
I say I'm gonna pay my bills,
it doesn't matter.
The lender needs a credit check
to prove that I have.
To prove that I will...
I'll give you $22,500 to let me go.
Nobody believes anything we say any more
without proof of intention.
So if I say that I'm gonna kill a man,
I need to prove that
I have killed a man.
Proof of intention.
-You need to stop now.
-No, I really can't do that.
I will take you at your word.
That should be good enough.
With that assurance, any other proof
of your sincerity is not necessary.
That's true. Except, it's not you
I have to convince. It's them.
I heard they gave you the shift today.
I thought it was a joke.
On me.
Or probably because everyone is
still too drunk from the party.
How much damage could a retiring
desk jockey do on a Saturday, anyway?
Lt. Roy! You got an incoming!
They're not wasting any time.
Well, the plan is
the whole building be empty by Friday.
The new HQ is already fully operational.
They asked for the duty officer?
Nope. You. By name.
Darnley? Didn't we come
to an agreement last year?
No more hacking city computer systems.
Parking ticket or not...
Yeah. This is different.
What have you done now?
I'm sending you a link. Go there. Now.
-Darnley...
-One of my chat groups sent me this.
You ever hear of a place
called Zoop's Chicken?
It's up Highway 9.
That means whatever this is,
it might be local.
-You got it? You seeing this?
-What am I looking at?
This is live and
I'm pretty sure it's real.
You don't want to do this.
It is unnecessary.
It's not a question of want.
It's a question of need.
We need to give gravitas
to the procedure to come.
What procedure?
Shit!
Hey, it's that creepy guy.
Slosson's not gonna
give me the interview.
He's going to CBS.
A Congressman
from ass-grease West Virginia,
and he's lied to me.
The world is nothing
but creepy guys, Kaitlyn.
-Which one?
-At 53 Division.
His name is Eddie.
And, yes, he's very creepy,
but creepy's how we get things done.
He's devoted to me.
Okay, well, he just said
if you don't want it,
he's gonna give it to
Channel 6 in four minutes.
Cocksucker!
Thank you.
You know this is too much.
How do you figure?
If we're really
being honest with each other,
and pretty soon we're gonna have to be
very honest with each other...
We both know that
this is absolutely necessary.
This will keep it real.
This will keep their attention.
You don't think cutting off his finger
was real enough?
Live?
Well, it looks live.
We can't really tell.
You're not in charge. Not in this room.
What do you mean "this room"?
I'm sorry.
What is this about? Really?
Justice.
No!
Holy shit.
-Sweet Jesus.
-Oh, shit.
Do I have your attention now?
Okay, I want all free hands on this.
I want to know everything
about that transmission
and how long it's been going.
-That was live.
-No. We can't verify that.
-It looked live!
-Yes, everything looks live.
We need anyone we can get
from tech support down here now.
Yes, I'll hold.
Sir, shouldn't we get
Lieutenant Lucas, sir? Someone...
With more field experience?
We certainly should...
I don't think
we're gonna have enough time.
Well. Now that that's done,
what should happen now?
I don't understand.
What should happen to me?
What does the State say should be done?
I don't think I'm qualified to say
what should be done
and what shouldn't be done.
Of course, you're qualified.
I beg your pardon?
You already said that
you were in the legal profession.
At the very least, someone
in the legal profession would know
the laws of their own state.
I see what you're saying.
Well, then you should be arrested,
incarcerated, indicted, and tried.
And?
-If you were to be found guilty...
-"If"?
If I was to be found guilty?
You were right here.
You saw the whole thing.
All these cameras were here
to secure witness.
If the jury were to find you guilty
and recommend the maximum sentence...
Well, in this state, you would be
condemned to pay the ultimate price.
And what would that be?
You would pay with your life.
You would be put to death.
Like the guy in the paper.
Yes, if you were convicted of
a capital crime, but you may not be.
No two cases are the same.
But the punishment is the same
regardless of the case,
because an innocent person was killed.
Cut and dried.
Seems to me that's the idea.
I don't quite understand
what you're getting at.
I picked a man up, I brought him here,
I tied him up, and I killed him.
As far as we know he was an innocent man
who never did anything to anybody.
So, there's no two ways about it.
We're talking about the death penalty.
Right here. Both papers. Big story.
The Jeeter case?
The Jeeter case. Read it.
Out loud to everyone. The whole thing.
"Paul William Gager,
"the man who abducted and murdered
"fourteen-year-old
Claudine Jeeter six years ago,
"was put to death this morning at 12:01.
"Death was administered
by lethal injection
"at the Six Rivers Correctional Facility
in Triborough.
"It was the swiftest enforcement
of the death penalty
"in the state's history."
Well, I suspect there's significantly
more to the story than that.
"A last-minute appeal by
Gager's lawyers was unsuccessful.
"Gager was convicted of
Jeeter's abduction and murder
"after a two-year manhunt.
"Jeeter went missing from her house
on February the 10th, six years ago."
I'm not bored.
"It was discovered later that
"Claudine had been
held in a homemade facility
"for keeping rabbits
on Gager's property,
"three miles from the Jeeter house.
"The search for Claudine Jeeter
was exhaustive and emotional..."
I know him.
"...and gained a great
deal of public attention
-"as local and state police..."
-We all know him, don't we?
"...followed lead after lead
"until finally they were
able to apprehend Gager
"and link him to the girl's death."
That's all there is.
There isn't any more.
Maybe not in the paper,
but in fact there's a lot more.
But I wanna make sure
I've got this right.
So, if the court was right
in that sentence,
and the State was right in exacting
the ultimate punishment,
then it follows,
as I have clearly stated,
that I should be executed for killing
our dear friend Ron resting outside.
No, you cannot say that for sure.
I picked a man up off the street,
I abducted him,
I took him out of his life...
But there are other issues.
The mental state
of the accused, the IQ...
I brought him here, I tied him up,
and I tortured him,
and I killed him for my own reasons.
What's not for sure about that?
No, you need a trial
to determine that.
Why?
Because without a trial
there can be no justice.
Well, that's an area you would know
quite a lot about, wouldn't you?
Your Honour.
Judge Oliver Straight.
The man who tried the Jeeter case.
A man is guilty
for taking the life of another man.
If convicted, that guilty man
must be put to death.
These are the rules
we've established, yes?
Don't say yes.
In this state, yes.
That "yes" means that we can be
a little bit more focused, doesn't it?
I have Carl on the phone for you.
Tell Carl we need to
control the cutting ourselves.
Yeah, well, he's not so crazy
about going live at all.
That's true to form.
Which is why we're number four.
Carl.
I put it to you, Judge,
that if that is the case,
things don't look too good for you.
Because surely as
I shot poor innocent Ron,
you're also guilty of
taking an innocent man's life.
What man would that be?
You just read the article.
The Jeeter case. Paul William Gager.
I can prove that
you willingly and knowingly put him,
an innocent man, to death.
And I'm ready to
try that case right here,
right now, in front of
this particular judge
and in front of this particular jury.
I don't understand.
Yes, you do.
They're right here. They're everywhere.
And I assure you, Judge,
these wheels of justice
will turn very quickly.
Now, Carl! Now!
Because they will beat us, that's why!
And we are not supposed to be beaten!
For those joining us late,
I'm going to conduct a trial
for the life of the Judge.
And whatever you decide,
I will abide by,
but let's be perfectly clear.
We're going by the rules of the State.
The Judge's rules.
That means on a verdict of guilty,
he will be put to death.
Right here.
Court is in session.
Isolate and find!
Let's get on to
what we know about Straight,
not what we think we know.
Good afternoon.
Harper Grant with a special USCN report.
Here's what we know...
God help us.
The judge who tried the Claudine Jeeter
abduction and murder trial
has himself apparently been abducted
and is now being held
at an undisclosed location.
The abduction, however, is being
broadcast live across social media.
To help fill in pieces of the puzzle,
here is USCN's own Jean Treblis. Jean?
Well, Harper, it's kind of early to say,
but it looks like
that what's happening is...
Some of the concerns
about how Justice Oliver Straight
tried the Jeeter case
are coming home to roost?
You can look at it that way.
Did you ever hear anyone question
how Judge Straight handled the case?
They will now.
At the least, we know
that a member of the public
has decided to question the trial.
And perhaps
even that verdict is in question.
Now, Darnley made references
to credit checks and overdue bills.
There could be something there.
Where are they pulling this stuff from?
-Who's this?
-It's the IT team.
-You're kidding.
-They're all in the new building.
What can you tell me?
You can't trace a stream
to a social media interface.
Why not? Isn't he using
their server or whatever it is?
Think of it as a telephone
that's been redirected 15 times.
-So he's smart in that way?
-Pretty much.
Can't they take him off?
They could of course
shut the whole thing down,
but then there's nothing to say
he couldn't just show up
on any other platform.
Yeah, it's a bad idea anyway.
And we would lose our only means
of knowing what he's up to.
Can we limit the reach
or whatever you call it?
Possibly.
-Will he know if we do that?
-Almost certainly.
How can you be so sure?
He broke into one of the
world's most controlled websites,
bootlegged a live signal without a trace
and scrambled it a half-dozen times...
My guess is he's smart enough to track
what's happening on his own site.
Okay. Thank you.
Okay, so the Judge
lives in Aspian County.
Twenty miles outside city centre.
We have two cruisers there now.
They found an open Volvo wagon
and a whole mess of groceries
spilled out onto the driveway.
But we don't know when it happened.
So we're running a check on all
surveillance cameras and any of the...
-Check the cash register tape.
-What?
In one of the bags on the driveway.
It'll tell us the store
and the time of purchase.
If no tape, check the bags
or the price stickers
to figure out which store,
go to the nearest one,
and get the time of purchase
from the manager.
The receipt will give us
where the Judge is.
If the Judge bought his groceries at
10:00 a.m., this thing went live at...
-1:11.
-1:11,
and a man can only drive
65 miles an hour
without attracting attention,
then the room they're in is no more than
a hundred-mile radius
from the Judge's house.
Now, if we allow for fixing up the room
and picking up the other abductee,
it's probably even closer.
What have you got on the other one?
We went back
to the start of the transmission
and we figured out
it's a local. Ron Price.
He owns and operates Priced to Pleez...
That's spelled with a "Z."
Now, he has an ex-wife
who's still his dispatcher.
She said his first job this morning
was out near Sheltingham.
So, if our man picked up
Mr Price after the Judge,
that means our location is very local.
Well, it's patently clear that you have
thought this through thoroughly,
and intelligently...
Don't condescend to me.
But you have made
some fundamental errors
when it comes to judicial process.
You say you're going to conduct a trial.
You can't. A trial...
"The examination of
evidence and applicable law
"by a competent tribunal to determine
"the specific issues
of charges and claims."
All right. All right. All right.
Let's look at "applicable law
in a competent tribunal..."
But we don't have to.
Because we already know
what law we're talking about.
Premeditated murder.
And as far as a competent tribunal goes,
well, I'm just picking my jury from
the same pot you chose yours from.
All that informs a trial are rules.
We'll have those.
And we'll have temperance.
That makes this a trial.
But we'll have something
your courtroom doesn't have,
or doesn't have very often.
Which is?
Justice.
I will be the prosecutor
and you will be defending yourself.
Out there will be the judge and jury.
The judge speaks in a trial.
This judge will speak.
Holy shit.
From the moment Claudine Jeeter
was taken, she was front-page news.
A fourteen-year-old girl,
straight-A student,
with a little pet terrier named Brownie,
plucked out of her world
on her way home from school.
Everyone was gripped.
The public, the police,
the Judge-to-be. Everyone.
We all saw the grandmother, Mrs Solsza,
on our TVs practically every night,
as well as the cousin,
the family spokesman, Bertinad Solsza.
They became fixtures in our living room,
part of our news, reality.
As a result, the prosecution will argue
that the verdict in the
Jeeter case was manufactured
instead of arrived at in the courtroom.
Not out of malice, but out of
genuinely honest outrage and desire.
A desire to see someone pay
for the killing of young Claudine.
But the prosecution will prove
that as a result of this desire,
there was a race to the gallows.
A race run on the
fuel of police incompetence
and judicial corner-cutting,
civil servants recreant to their duty.
So an innocent man was put to death.
Whether the State thought
Paul William Gager
was guilty or not is not the point.
Does it matter
if I thought Ron the roofer
was guilty of some crime
only later to discover that he wasn't?
Of course not.
All that matters is I killed him
and I had no right to kill him.
The State killed Paul William Gager
and they had no right to kill him.
The prosecution will prove this
beyond the shadow of a doubt
by pointing out that his arrest and
trial was systematic of a justice system
that is ignorant, corrupt,
and bloodthirsty.
This is not how it's done.
-Are you speaking as the defence?
-No.
Well, you can only speak
if you're speaking as the defence.
I can only speak as myself.
I can't speak as the defence...
Well, you don't have a voice,
unless it's as the defence
addressing the court.
...because, as I've already said,
this is not a court.
Believe me when I say,
you can make
a great study of a dictionary
and brilliantly mimic
the way lawyers speak,
but that does not mean
you understand the law.
You're saying
I don't understand the law?
I am saying
you do not understand the law.
Exhibit A for the prosecution.
The Judge's error.
Assumptions without reference.
Judgements without support.
The modus operandi of the man in the
black robe to make snap judgements.
This is not my kind of law.
Yes, this is your kind of law.
And this is not my kind of courtroom.
Yes, this is your kind of courtroom.
The Jeeter case was a capital case.
There is a judge, yes.
But the verdict is
reached at by the jury,
and they recommend the sentence.
The role of the magistrate
is considerably limited.
I expect you know that.
But there is something else
going on here that concerns me.
No doubt you'll let us all know.
I don't believe you have
the right to try this case.
Not under any circumstances.
Is anybody here a lawyer?
A criminal lawyer?
I am.
What's he saying?
I believe there's
a clear issue of conflict of interest,
and that being the case,
we cannot even begin to proceed
until I ascertain whether
I'm right or not, by questioning you.
Except it doesn't work that way.
I'm afraid it does.
If I have any indication
of conflict of interest, I can object.
And I object.
I object to your objection!
What happens now?
So let's overrule it.
Jesus Christ.
A surprising turn of events, Harper.
But as the numbers tell you,
right now, people are
clearly voting to support
the Judge's objection, and overrule
the man who is now holding him hostage.
What does it say? Well?
We have never
seen anything like this, obviously.
-My objection has been overruled.
-All right, then.
It appears that
the voice of the people...
By a vote of 47,239 to 19,640.
Nearly 70,000 people
taking part already.
More than ten percent
of the people watching
are actually taking part and voting.
That seems a massive number to me.
And I suspect that percentage
is only going to grow.
Holy shit.
Stokely!
Take a seat.
What was his name?
The detective
who oversaw the Jeeter case.
-Steptoe.
-Do you know him?
For a while, I was a junior in his unit.
-Not on the Jeeter case...
-Call him.
-Why?
-What if this guy actually has a point?
About the Judge?
I believe the obvious question now
is are you going to abide
by the order from the bench?
So you accept this as a courtroom now?
I mean, if you're saying
words like "abide" and "bench"...
No, this is not a courtroom.
But if you abide by the ruling,
that says something about
how you're going to address,
how you're going to
treat your own rulings.
And that might make it a courtroom.
You said there were
70,000 people, right now?
And more every second?
Well, it would seem to me
that whatever you're trying to prove
would be in jeopardy
if you do not follow your own rules.
-Go ahead.
-I beg your pardon?
I objected. My objection was overruled.
So go ahead.
You said "conflict of interest."
What conflict of interest?
Well, you made a speech to that camera,
and you did it eloquently, very well.
The girl came from an ethnic community.
Some of their names
were extremely difficult to pronounce.
But you said them with ease.
There's also the issue
of the dog's name.
Every news piece mentioned the dog.
-And the name?
-And the dog's name.
But not the breed. I know that.
Because that was one of the hold-backs
of the police
for suspect identification.
Certainly, it seems that
you know the Jeeter family well.
You do, don't you? Who are you?
I was her uncle.
This is a USCN breaking-news report.
A special USCN update.
The man is her uncle.
That is the story
according to the person
holding Judge Oliver Straight hostage
at an undisclosed location,
in attempts to conduct
what appears to be
a mock trial by social media.
Here to help us sort through the details
is USCN analyst Josh Harkridge. Josh?
What we now know is the man
holding Judge Straight hostage
appears to have
a very specific axe to grind.
And that may explain why he's taken this
course of action in the first place.
Would this be some kind of a grudge?
Well, that's exactly
the problem, Harper.
We don't know.
What we do know is this morning saw
the execution of Paul William Gager.
Claudine's killer.
Now, if there is an axe to grind
about a trial being misconducted...
It's possible that the family
had harboured doubts
about the Gager verdict all along.
I don't think we can say that.
Now, Josh, tell me,
doesn't this bring us right back
to the question surrounding
Judge Straight's handling of the case?
It could.
You do not have the right
to try this case.
Any reasonable judge would tell you...
No. No, we don't have to speculate
on what a reasonable judge would say,
because we have a judge.
And I don't think the judge will say
that my relationship
to Claudine excludes me
from trying this case,
because the case at hand
is not about Claudine's abduction.
It's about you
putting an innocent man to death.
That's the case at trial here.
So, I say we put it to a judge's ruling.
That wouldn't stand up anywhere.
It will here.
It's not enough
to just surround the house.
Someone has to talk to the family.
That's why I said the cousin.
Then let me talk to him.
His name is what,
Bertinad, right?
-Then what is the problem...
-Lt. Roy?
Hi. Leonard Steptoe.
I was in charge
of the Jeeter investigation.
Yeah, it looks like you've got yourself
in some situation.
I'm in the middle
of a nightmare, Detective.
I'm here to help you any way I can.
All right, now to start,
there's information
about the Jeeter family
that you need to know.
Come on, you gotta be there.
Shit.
The uncle? He's dead.
Say again?
His car slipped
into the Tremont Viaduct,
so whatever this freak says he wants,
it's not because
he's Claudine Jeeter's uncle.
And it looks like,
once again, the objection is overruled.
Your objection has been overruled.
In this case, the argument...
I would like to know
the judge's reasoning.
Do you always give a reason
when you're on the bench?
You've already accepted
one of the judge's rulings,
so that means you accept
the authority of this court.
Let's be perfectly clear.
The people who investigated
and tried the Jeeter case
needed and wanted a crazed,
lone psychopath.
And they needed one
for a very simple reason.
See, the killing of a young person
is the worst crime that we can imagine.
In order to reconcile
this horror in our minds,
we need, we must have,
and we must kill
a crazed lone psychopath.
Anybody who doesn't feel
that longing is inhuman.
And it's written all over this case.
The lawyers, the police.
And most of all, the justice system.
Every decision they made
was based on their humanity.
And because of the way
that this shitty system is set up,
they were allowed to take the results
of those flawed human conclusions
and couple that with a power
that really doesn't belong to them.
The power to give and take life.
You have something to add?
Is that really
what we're talking about here?
The validity of the death penalty?
I'm sorry,
but for whatever reason,
I thought this was going to be
about something more original
and substantive.
Look around you, Judge.
Do I strike you as someone
who isn't original and substantive?
This is about justice.
Now, I want to question you
about the police work on this case.
I'm afraid I cannot help you there.
I am not a policeman.
Well, then I want to question you
about your interpretation of
the police work on the case.
Would you say that it was thorough?
Up to the standards
that we expect from our police?
Of course.
It would not have come to
or withstood trial otherwise.
What would those standards be?
Isn't it true that most serious crimes
in this country go unsolved?
By "unsolved," you mean...
I mean no bullshit myths,
no dime novels,
no phoney TV dramas.
Isn't it true that what most
real police officers investigate
in this country,
they can't and don't solve?
Isn't it true that only 18%
of all non-violent crimes
in this country are solved?
Eighteen percent.
Motherfucker.
And isn't it also true
that more than 50%
of violent crimes go unsolved?
And nearly a third
-of all murders go unsolved...
-That bears no relevance to...
Hell, the most devastating murder
in the history of this country,
the assassination
of a sitting American President
in full view of the entire country,
is still unsolved.
The Zodiac killer, the Lindbergh baby,
JonBent Ramsey, the Boston Strangler...
The list goes on.
Wouldn't it be stating fact to say that
as a standard, the police are unable
to solve most crimes in this country?
The Jeeter case was rock solid.
There's not a person on this planet
that can prove otherwise.
Can you tell me
what I'm pulling up here?
You don't need me to tell you.
It's obvious.
Answer the question.
Well, they're newspaper clippings.
Articles relating to the Jeeter case.
You're familiar with them?
Some of them, yes.
From the time of the trial?
I presume so, yes.
Actually,
those were all from before the trial.
But you say that
they're familiar to you.
Could you go ahead
and tell the jury what's in them?
I'm not quite sure
I understand your question.
That's okay. I'll answer.
It's the story.
The story of Paul William Gager
from the moment that he was arrested.
The loner living out
in the country. Uncommunicative.
He had that odd hobby
of metal detection.
That thing about building
the rabbit hutches
out of the roadside construction signs.
The knocking out of the interior walls.
But most of all,
that photo, that high school photo.
Is there a single person in this country
that didn't find that disturbing?
-You saw it, right?
-Yes.
Before the trial?
Yes.
Did you find it disturbing?
I found it disturbing.
Yes.
"Yes" what?
Yes, I found it disturbing.
Well, I put it to you, Judge,
that you saw that photo
and you put it together
with all those news stories,
and all the evidence against him
just sort of...
Clicked together.
But, I mean, we can't forget about
the biggest piece of evidence, right?
That she was found on his property,
we can't forget about that.
And that little link to the shed
by the side of the house.
Boy, that made sense.
He was her killer.
That was the determination of the jury.
-Working from the facts.
-Yes.
The facts that the police
-provided to the prosecution.
-Yes.
But not all the facts, right?
What are you saying?
Well, isn't it true
that the jury never heard
about his previous criminal history,
because you,
the judge, deemed it inadmissible?
Yes, it's true. I would not admit it.
-Why?
-For his protection.
Because he had been previously charged
with attempted sexual abuse?
It would have prejudiced the jury.
But it was sexual abuse
of a man, Judge. Of a man.
A 36-year-old man
who he tried to pick up
at the Sapp Brothers truck stop.
Isn't it true that he was also ordered
into a psychiatric evaluation?
-Not by me.
-But the results
of that psychiatric evaluation
were also deemed inadmissible
by you, right?
Well, help me out with something here.
Would a homosexual man,
who's extremely claustrophobic,
so claustrophobic, in fact, he knocked
out all the interior walls of his house,
choose to keep a 14-year-old girl
in a seven-foot-by-five-foot shed
with no windows?
Because he must have spent
a lot of time out there with her, right?
I mean, making all those dolls
and the necklaces and the bracelets.
So the size of the shed is the issue?
-The size of the shed is not the issue.
-No, on the contrary.
I think the size of the shed
-is the issue.
-No!
The size of the shed isn't the issue!
The issue is the court
suppressing medical,
psychiatric, and criminal evidence
based on their own
goddamn personal bias.
No, that's almost impossible
to substantiate.
It may be impossible to prove,
but it is possible
that it happened, right?
Maybe, yes, yes.
It's possible.
If there's anything else
he can say or uncover,
I'd like to know now.
Let me be perfectly clear.
I dedicated two years of my life
to Claudine Jeeter.
I know I did right by her.
So I don't have to take questions
from anyone.
-Certainly not you.
-Why not me?
Yeah, you made detective.
You traded it all away for a desk.
You couldn't handle the bad guys.
Now you're trading in your desk
for retirement.
You don't have any right to question me
or anyone else
about the legwork we did
on the Jeeter case.
We got it right.
Yes?
When did the police
or the news media release
the information
about the size of the shed?
-Who is this?
-It's Darnley.
And what's that stuff about
the necklaces and the bracelets?
It's not online, okay?
And in my world, if it's not online,
it doesn't exist.
No one's said it before.
Well, was there anything else
that was possibly suppressed
in order to guarantee
a conviction in this case?
Wouldn't you be better able
to answer that than I would?
You're not her uncle.
I know who you are.
You'd better see this.
Well, if I am who you think I am,
you really can't say it, can you?
That's the bind.
The Judge can't say
without incriminating himself.
Question.
If that guy withheld
certain information,
who would know?
Family.
Who else?
Us.
The victims. And...
The perpetrator.
The person who actually kidnapped
and killed Claudine Jeeter.
Were they able to absolutely
and without question
tie the girl to Gager's backyard shed?
You'd have to ask Steptoe.
I'm asking you.
I heard the links to the shed
were circumstantial.
But they thought they were good
because they had him dead
to rights on nearly everything else.
"Nearly"?
Well, the Judge can't talk about it
without incriminating himself,
but here's how it might have happened
as these things go.
He may have been close to her.
Close enough that he saw her.
Not every day, but enough.
Enough to know
how she went about her life.
Walking to and from school
with her friends,
and playing with her dog in the park,
and when she was forced
to take her brother to the corner store
and she hated it,
and you could tell.
Her arms and legs in the summer.
The shade of her skin.
She was a pure thing.
Slowly, he realised he wanted
to possess that purity.
Hold it.
Hold it in his hand like a snowflake.
Protect it from being sullied.
And then, eventually, he realised
that he would take her.
He would take her
and he knew it was an awful thing.
A horrible thing to do.
He wrestled with it.
Can you imagine?
Wrestling with a thing like that?
And then he just took her.
In that one simple act.
Seconds, really.
His whole life up until then
just shattered,
like a mirror into a million pieces.
But then he saw the reaction
of the news,
and the press, and the police,
and he was so relieved
because he realised he would be caught.
They would catch him.
I mean, they had to.
He always saw them on television.
They were always saying
that they were getting the job done,
working day and night.
They wouldn't rest
until they found the killer.
But day after day went by,
and day after day he wasn't caught,
he wasn't captured.
And he came to realise
that he was not going to be caught,
and the reason for that was this...
They didn't know what they were doing.
Sure, they looked like police,
but they weren't.
Not really.
Day after day, they waved him
through their police checkpoints,
and day after day, he could breathe
less and less and less.
Now, it might have been
that the abductor began to test things.
The first time that they questioned him,
he gave them two clues.
Now, they weren't easy,
but they weren't hard.
Nothing came of it.
So, the next time, he made it easier.
Obvious even.
Didn't matter.
They didn't follow up on that either.
So, finally, he mailed in
an anonymous confession.
He even included some of his own DNA.
But the police lost it.
Now, if you can believe this,
they were actually in the yard
where she was being kept.
They were right there!
All they had to do was
walk the three extra feet,
but, gosh, they just couldn't bring
themselves to do it.
They would have found her if they had.
And once he realised
how lousy it all was,
the conclusion was inevitable.
He would have to kill her.
He would have to kill the girl.
That would be the only way
that they could catch him.
Once they had the body,
once they had the evidence,
then they would need to catch him.
And once they caught him,
they would put him to death
because that's the only thing
that should happen to somebody like him.
Someone like him that would do a thing
like that to somebody
like her deserves to die.
So he killed her, and once he began
to reckon with the real moral realities
of the situation,
he tipped off the police.
The police came
and they collected the body,
and they collected the evidence,
and after that,
they got everything wrong.
They accused Paul William Gager.
Paul William Gager.
Just because she was on his property.
And because of the rabbit hutches
made out of construction signs.
And of course, that goddamn photo.
And that's what the cable news ran with.
That photo for four days straight.
Every headline.
And by the time
they were finished with him,
the whole country knew that he did it.
The trial, that was only a formality.
All that was left was for you
to preside over the execution.
Yes.
I am the prosecution's final
and most irrefutable proof
that you killed an innocent man.
I killed Claudine Jeeter.
There's not a single thing you can do
that can make that not so.
Everybody is running down
that information right now.
I understand
how you have come to the conclusions
that you've come to.
But...
You have to remember
that the law is administered by people.
And people are not perfect.
That's not the issue.
We both know that that's not the issue.
The issue is
what is to be done with me?
Well, if there were a trial...
Well, I think we can get through
a trial pretty quickly.
I'm saying that I did it.
I mean, I've got all the proof
to back it up.
I'd say I've got rock-solid guilt
coming and going.
There's the question of intent.
Let's talk about intent.
Was it your intention
when you first entered that courtroom
on the very first day
to see Claudine Jeeter's killer
put to death
if the jury found him guilty?
I believed what they told me.
There isn't a single person out there
who isn't going to vote to convict.
And when that happens,
I will own the story one way or...
Carl...
Carl! Shit.
I need to talk to you.
Harper.
Why did you float that crap
about people questioning the Judge?
And all that shit about the verdict?
Kaitlyn, listen to me.
The story will be forgotten tomorrow.
But not who told it.
You don't get the urgency of this?
We're watching it on television.
I mean, bring it up
to the Commissioner's office...
What are you doing?
I'm getting authorisation
to take over this whole thing.
All right?
Technically, it's not just a homicide,
it's part of the Jeeter case.
Come on.
Look, we both know they are gonna
want me to take this over now.
Yeah.
I believe that.
You know the new building
is finally ready?
And I'm not gonna make it in there.
Thirty-seven years on the force
and it will all have been spent
in this rat hole.
This precinct was famous.
Did you know this building
is 120 years old?
They redid it in 1960,
but it was the original HQ
for all Metro.
-Remember Frank Stoppard?
-Yeah.
Every night he'd be on TV
talking to the press about,
"We're investigating this,"
and "We're investigating that."
Because, you know, the '70s were bad.
-They sure were.
-Violent.
But no matter how ugly it was,
you just felt better looking at Frank.
He looked right.
A touch of grey.
Always wore the right suit.
All the other guys were slobs.
Then I realised they looked like that
because they spent their lives
knocking on doors.
And working the phones,
and chasing down leads.
Frank was just the frontman.
They all knew it.
Including Frank.
But today, everyone's a Frank.
I didn't take a desk
because I couldn't stand heat.
I took a desk
because I saw it all coming apart.
And I wanted to do something
that at least felt like
real police work.
But this...
Terrible as it is...
Let's start with one simple question.
Were there marks on her wrists and neck?
-Yes.
-What did Stapleton say about that?
Stapleton didn't do the postmortem.
It's all in the reports.
We had Baker do the postmortem...
-Stapleton's got 40 years with Homicide.
-Yes, I know that.
An experienced pathologist
would have made something
of the marks.
We wanted to pick up Gager anyway.
Our hero, here, just told us
the two of them
made bracelets and necklaces together.
If he knows that and it's a match,
then he's our guy, and he's close by.
That's a very big reach, Lieutenant.
He told us.
Walking with her friends
back and forth from school.
Trips to the corner store.
In a park with a dog.
He had to see her do all three.
Well, are you saying
we didn't comb the neighbourhood?
Because that's the first thing we did.
No.
I don't think you did.
I'm telling you right now.
We combed that neighbourhood.
No.
So this is the original Jeeter stuff?
I dug up everything we had
from the first day.
I heard the radio,
one of the police radios,
and they were talking about the girl.
So I hope nothing bad's happened.
What else do you have?
Now, there's a string of older houses
along the north block,
but only four of them could have
sight lines to the school,
park, or corner store.
But none of them see
Claudine's house, though.
He didn't talk about seeing her house.
He talked about seeing her at the park,
and at the corner store.
Specifically, the corner store.
There. Go back.
Don't get me wrong,
there's not a person here that
doesn't feel terrible about Claudine.
We're all praying for her.
But, for sure, our civil liberties
are being stepped on here!
Go back.
The guy in the grey shirt in the back.
But, for sure, our civil liberties
are being stepped on here!
What's he saying?
It could be anything.
Due civil process.
"Due civil process."
Who else you heard lately
talks like that?
Can you cap him?
-Can we upload this?
-Why would we do that?
To put ourselves where we belong, Tom.
In a way, this case
has already been tried.
The conclusion reached
and the punishment locked in stone.
My life for Claudine's,
my life for Ron's.
I'm sure none of you
will object to that.
But applying the same rules,
who will answer for the life
of Paul William Gager?
Applying the same logic, someone has to,
because if they don't,
you might as well set me free.
That doesn't work.
There really is only one person.
One person who had access
to all the facts.
One person who had
ultimate control over which facts
were given to the jury,
and one person who had
the authority to say "stop"
in the event that justice
wasn't being served.
Most of all, the person who said,
"Paul William Gager,
I sentence you to death."
That person is right here.
He denies that responsibility
because for the first time,
he's being called out on an authority
that he's always so naturally assumed.
Up till now he's only
ever supported the system.
That's the system that elected him.
The system that couldn't find
Claudine Jeeter while she was alive
and the system that couldn't find
her killer when she was dead.
And the system that sentenced
Paul William Gager,
an innocent man, to death.
With one key stroke,
you're going to pronounce him guilty.
And together, we can finally get right
what the system
has always gotten so wrong.
Anything else would be unjust.
And as you can see from our monitors,
a huge number of people are voting
to convict Judge Straight.
It may not be due process,
but it does seem to have
gripped viewer imaginations.
-Yeah?
-Is there any way to stop the voting?
Clog it or slow it down or stop it?
We're getting closer,
but I need more time.
Maybe, but don't you have guys
to do that?
Not really.
But we both know you can do it.
And right now, I need someone
-who doesn't care about the rules.
-Let me see what I can do.
Some sort of stutter
in the voting process.
What'd you just do?
I think I paused the voting.
Bought you three, four minutes.
Not much more.
Okay, then if you could...
What's that?
A source at USCN texted it.
It's a neighbour
they found in old footage.
Our guy said he was interviewed.
Hey, cross-reference this
against our records.
Of course.
Got it. Henry David Cole. 43 Glenmount.
Six houses down and across the street
from the Jeeter house.
I presume this is when you intend
that I make the summation
for the defence?
I have already said
this is not a real courtroom.
We've not had a trial.
No real evidence has been presented.
No real allowance has been made
for the reputation of hearsay
or conjecture.
Let me...
It's important that we all recognise,
when a jury reaches a verdict
and is delivering it to the court,
it is doing so
as the duly elected representatives
of the society, of our state.
-He's losing everyone.
-Of all of us.
I mean, that's fundamental,
and it's very important
that you understand that the...
I should start again.
May I start again, please?
I don't think you have time,
Your Honour.
But it's crucial, for me...
For me, it's crucial that...
That they understand
how a judgement is constituted.
It's not my choice.
It's not my choice, it's the law.
Metro Police! Search warrant!
Go, go, go!
Everybody in the house! Down!
Clear the room.
-Go inside. Watch my back.
-I'll stand back.
Clear in the kitchen.
This is Metro Police!
We have a search warrant!
This floor is clear.
-Sir, they need to get to the basement.
-He's not in the basement.
He's in the basement.
No. We're being played.
Secure the door. Stand back.
Sounds like a portable generator.
Somebody's been doing construction.
What the hell is that?
It's a ventilator or something.
It looks like air is being
diverted off the property.
I got something over here.
Easy...
Jesus Christ.
Find out where it leads.
It's not an emotional process...
This is not an emotional process.
It's a sequence of rules.
We've got backyard access
to the ravine here.
To the back. All the way to the back.
The idea that one man could control
the entire criminal code...
Spread out.
That went out 500 years ago
with the divine right of kings.
There's something back here.
But there is no divine right
of judges.
What the fuck is this?
Easy.
Easy. Cover me.
Cover.
Be very careful.
My God.
She was 14, not six.
Moments ago, an emergency task force
team broke into this house,
less than half a block
from the Jeeter home.
The police are working from information
that they received from USCN.
They may in fact be looking
for this man,
Henry David Cole.
Now with closing arguments
coming to a climax,
the clock is literally running out
for Justice Oliver Straight.
So Cole has a record. Endangerment.
But he got off on a technicality.
But get this. He's some sort of IT guy.
You cannot ask the law to be perfect.
The most you can ask the law for
is a result.
Sometimes, any result.
Any result you can work with.
The Pilgrims.
When they landed at Plymouth Rock,
you think that was their intent? No.
It was a mistake.
But nowadays we call it their plan.
Why?
Because it makes us feel better.
You want fairy tales?
Look in the history books.
You want the truth?
Here it is.
It's about getting as close as you can.
If Paul Gager wasn't the right man,
he was close enough.
As such, a trial was held.
A verdict was reached.
And there was satisfaction.
And if you don't like it,
well, then you convict
the woman who wrote
those newspaper articles.
You convict the neighbours
who talked too much.
You convict the cop who can't read,
let alone read evidence.
And you convict the detective
who was three feet away
from where she was
when she was alive!
And he didn't go that extra three feet
because he was thinking of, what,
of getting laid that night? Who knows?
Convict them all.
But you can't.
So you get as close as you can.
You have a ceremony.
The torches are lit.
You walk a man up the stone stairs,
and you put him to death
on the stone altar.
Maybe it doesn't matter
if he's the right man or the wrong man.
He's close enough.
Because someone had to be sacrificed
for the death of that girl.
The justice is that she didn't die.
Satisfaction is that
someone died for her.
And if you don't like that?
If it reminds you that
we are all still primitives? Too bad.
The best you can get from the law
is close enough.
As long as we are
who we are...
We are him.
We are you.
I'm done.
Wait a minute.
We've been staring at that thing
since this began.
I said this place was ancient the day
that I got here,
but they'd already done a big renovation
in 1960.
Okay, so what does that mean?
That means they sealed off
a big part of the basement
right here.
What better place to hold a trial
for judgement than the police station?
We are going to come
to a conclusion very soon.
And while USCN has been working
to create its own projections
based on our own telephone
and online poll,
we can tell you that whatever has caused
the log jam on the original site,
the abductor's site, seems to...
I lost the hold. A whole lot of people
are about to do a whole lot of voting.
...as quickly as we had before.
Numbers that seem to suggest
we're going to come
to a verdict very quickly,
based on the algorithm
of the number of people watching,
relative to the number of people
taking part.
And right now it looks neck and neck
for the Judge to be acquitted
or found guilty.
I suppose you're looking
for 50 plus one.
Anything as quaint
as a hung jury would be...
Would be boring, wouldn't it?
Josh, we don't know why,
but it appears that the police
are suddenly racing away
from the Cole home
for an undisclosed location.
We don't know where they're going,
but we're definitely going to track
where this takes us,
and bring you the story live
and in full detail as events unfold.
-We are following...
-I have to cut you off
and let you and our viewers know
that based on numbers coming in,
our USCN analysts are now making
a solid projection that...
Well, there's no other way to put it,
but this is terrible news
for the Judge.
Perhaps a major upset.
All numbers suggest there is no way
the Judge will not be found guilty.
Repeat. The Judge
will definitely be found guilty.
As soon as we can,
we will show you
how those numbers broke down.
We're both done.
It says so on cable news.
So it must be true.
Go, go, go.
We're in. Move, move, move!
Let's go, let's go.
Move, move, move!
You can't do this.
Yes, I can.
Stand up straight.
The verdict is in.
The people have spoken.
Oliver Straight,
you have been found guilty
by a jury of your peers
for taking the life of an innocent man.
As such, it is the decision
of this court that your own life
should be taken for his.
Are you a religious man, Your Honour?
"And thine eye shall not pity."
Did you pity, Judge?
-No.
-Louder!
No, I did not.
"And thine eye shall not pity."
Repeat after me.
"But life shall go for life."
Life shall go for life.
"Eye for eye."
Eye for eye.
"Tooth for tooth."
Tooth for tooth.
"Hand for hand."
Hand for hand.
"Foot for foot."
Foot for foot.
Go! Everybody get down!
Hold!
Gun!
Stop!
I said hold up! Hold up!
-Hold fire!
-Holding fire.
Jesus Christ.
Shit. No gun.
Fuck.
Jesus Christ.
Why'd you have the gun?
He gave it to me.
Someone get me a bus!
He knew. He knew... He knew about you.
Knew what?
Knew that you were the executioners.
Fuck.
Lieutenant...
We clearly apprehended
a lethal threat here.
We had no choice,
but to protect ourselves.
Weapons check!
We good?
We're good.
There may not be words
for what we've just witnessed.
There probably aren't.
We go now to our reporter on the scene
who has been a witness
to today's events, Harper Grant.
Josh, we were only bystanders
in all of this.
But there was no question
that we have witnessed tragedy.
Here's what we've been able
to figure out...